---
title: "Embed Progressive Implicit Preference in Unified Space for Deep Collaborative Filtering"
collection: publications
category: conferences
date: 2025-08-01
venue: 'KDD 2025'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.20900'
codeurl: 'https://github.com/FuCongResearchSquad/GNOLR'
citation: 'Zhongjin Zhang, Yu Liang, Cong Fu, Yuxuan Zhu, Kun Wang, Yabo Ni, Anxiang Zeng, Jiazhi Xia. (2025). "Embed Progressive Implicit Preference in Unified Space for Deep Collaborative Filtering." <i>KDD 2025</i>.'
---
Embedding-based collaborative filtering, often coupled with nearest neighbor search, is widely deployed in large-scale recommender systems for personalized content selection. Modern systems leverage multiple implicit feedback signals (e.g., clicks, add to cart, purchases) to model user preferences comprehensively. However, prevailing approaches adopt a feedback-wise modeling paradigm, which (1) fails to capture the structured progression of user engagement entailed among different feedback and (2) embeds feedback-specific information into disjoint spaces, making representations incommensurable, increasing system complexity, and leading to suboptimal retrieval performance. A promising alternative is Ordinal Logistic Regression (OLR), which explicitly models discrete ordered relations. However, existing OLR-based recommendation models mainly focus on explicit feedback (e.g., movie ratings) and struggle with implicit, correlated feedback, where ordering is vague and non-linear. Moreover, standard OLR lacks flexibility in handling feedback-dependent covariates, resulting in suboptimal performance in real-world systems. To address these limitations, we propose Generalized Neural Ordinal Logistic Regression (GNOLR), which encodes multiple feature-feedback dependencies into a unified, structured embedding space and enforces feedback-specific dependency learning through a nested optimization framework. Thus, GNOLR enhances predictive accuracy, captures the progression of user engagement, and simplifies the retrieval process. We establish a theoretical comparison with existing paradigms, demonstrating how GNOLR avoids disjoint spaces while maintaining effectiveness. Extensive experiments on ten real-world datasets show that GNOLR significantly outperforms state-of-the-art methods in efficiency and adaptability.
